HOMEWORK 4
Brian de Korodi, Xuanzheng LI, Joakim Kerbaol

EXERCISE 1

Market Research of the Space Industry

Introduction
The space industry has historically been dominated by state-funded programs with strict regulations on component reliability. However, the emergence of 
New Space has led to a paradigm shift, emphasizing cost-effectiveness and rapid deployment over the traditional focus on highly reliable, high-cost components. 
This paper examines France’s space strategy through CNES, comparing it to Germany’s DLR, and explores how the rise of New Space is transforming supply chains 
and component selection. Finally, it discusses potential future trends in the industry.

France’s Space Strategy and CNES

The French space agency CNES (Centre National d'Études Spatiales) was founded in 1961 under the directive of President Charles de Gaulle. It was established to 
ensure France’s sovereignty in space and advance its aerospace and defense capabilities. Over the years, CNES has focused on developing independent launch 
capabilities, satellites, and collaborations with the European Space Agency (ESA). The agency’s efforts have led to the creation of the Ariane launch vehicle 
series, establishing France as a dominant player in the European space sector. Governmental policies have provided substantial funding and regulatory support, 
enabling CNES to work closely with industries like defense and aerospace to develop indigenous technology.

France has integrated its space sector with its broader aerospace and defense strategy. CNES collaborates with major industrial players such as Airbus and 
Thales Alenia Space, ensuring technological advancements that support both civilian and military applications. The government has consistently funded strategic 
programs to reduce dependence on foreign components, aligning space development with national security needs.

Germany’s Space Strategy and DLR

The German Aerospace Center (DLR) has historically focused on scientific research rather than defense-driven space development. Founded in the 1960s, DLR’s 
primary goal has been advancing aeronautics, energy, and space technology with strong academic and industrial collaborations. Unlike CNES, DLR does not have a 
major independent launch capability and primarily relies on ESA programs for space access. Germany’s space strategy is more research-driven, with significant 
projects in climate monitoring, Earth observation, and robotics. Given Germany’s strong automotive industry, DLR has explored synergies between automotive-grade 
electronics and space applications. Germany’s approach relies heavily on European cooperation, contrasting with France’s ambition for greater independence in 
space operations.

France’s Dominance in the European Space Sector

France’s leadership in the European space industry can be attributed to several key factors. By investing heavily in launch technology and satellite 
infrastructure, France secured a dominant position. The Ariane rocket series, developed under CNES’s leadership, has been Europe’s primary launch vehicle for 
decades. Unlike Germany, France has a highly integrated space and defense sector, which has facilitated sustained funding and innovation. France has provided 
billions in subsidies to develop indigenous technology, reducing reliance on U.S. components.

New Space Trends and Component Supply Chains

Traditional vs. New Space Approaches

Traditional space missions prioritize high-reliability components, which undergo extensive testing to withstand extreme space conditions. However, New Space 
companies, such as SpaceX and small satellite manufacturers, have shifted towards commercial off-the-shelf components to reduce costs and production times. The 
traditional space supply chain involves extensive qualification and radiation testing, low-volume production with long lead times, very high costs, and strict 
supplier controls. By contrast, New Space supply chains involve limited testing with reliance on redundancy, high-volume production with faster procurement, 
significantly lower costs, and open-market sourcing.

Manufacturers’ Adaptation to New Space

Manufacturers like Infineon and STMicroelectronics now offer radiation-tolerant commercial off-the-shelf components that balance cost and reliability. The 
European Space Agency has introduced new qualification standards, such as ECSS-Q-ST-60-13C, to accommodate New Space’s needs, reducing the reliance on fully 
high-reliability components. Emerging solutions involve blockchain-based tracking of commercial off-the-shelf component usage, ensuring traceability and quality 
assurance.

Future Outlook of the Space Industry

Several key developments will shape the future of the space industry. Given that automotive-grade electronics undergo rigorous testing for harsh environments, 
they may increasingly be used in space applications. The growing risk of space debris may force stricter regulations and de-orbiting policies. A mix of 
high-reliability and commercial off-the-shelf components will likely dominate, driven by cost constraints and mission flexibility. The integration of blockchain 
technology in supply chain management could enhance transparency and component tracking, addressing some of New Space’s reliability concerns.

Conclusion

The space industry is undergoing a significant transformation due to the rise of New Space, bringing cost-efficient and rapid deployment models into play. 
France’s CNES has historically maintained dominance through strategic investments and defense integration, while Germany’s DLR has focused more on research and 
automotive synergies. The shift from high-reliability components to commercial off-the-shelf is reshaping supply chains, compelling space agencies and 
manufacturers to adapt. The future will likely see greater collaboration between the space and automotive industries, increased regulatory oversight on debris 
management, and the adoption of blockchain for component traceability.
